# Second Part of OCP 1z0-819 (Former 1z0-816)

## Summary

- [Second Part of OCP 1z0-819 (Former 1z0-816)](#second-part-of-ocp-1z0-819-former-1z0-816)
  - [Summary](#summary)
  - [Java-Fundamentals](#java-fundamentals)
    - [**Introducing Functional Programming**](#introducing-functional-programming)
  - [Annotations](#annotations)
  - [Generics and Collections](#generics-and-collections)

## Java-Fundamentals

- The **_immutable objects pattern_** is an object‐oriented design pattern in which an object cannot be modified after it is created. Instead of modifying an immutable object, you create a new object that contains any properties from the original object you want copied over.
- A nested class is a class that is defined within another class. A nested class can come in one of four flavors:
  - **Inner class**: A non‐ static type defined at the member level of a class
  - **Static nested class**: A static type defined at the member level of a class
  - **Local class**: A class defined within a method body
  - **Anonymous class**: A special case of a local class that does not have a name
- **interfaces** and **enums** can be declared as both inner classes and static nested classes, but not as local or anonymous classes.
- **Inner classes** cannot declare static fields or methods, except for static final fields
- **static nested class** can't access instance variables or methods in the outer class directly.
- **DEFAULT INTERFACE METHOD DEFINITION RULES:**
  - A default method may be declared only within an interface.
  - A default method must be marked with the default keyword and include a method body.
  - A default method is assumed to be public.
  - A default method cannot be marked abstract, final, or static.
  - A default method may be overridden by a class that implements the interface.
  - If a class inherits two or more default methods with the same method signature, then the class must override the method.
- **Static Interface Method Definition Rules:**
  - A static method must be marked with the static keyword and include a method body.
  - A static method without an access modifier is assumed to be public.
  - A static method cannot be marked abstract or final.
  - A static method is not inherited and cannot be accessed in a class implementing the interface without a reference to the interface name.
- The **_static interface methods_** are not inherited by a class implementing the interface, as they would if the method were defined in a parent class.
- **Private Interface Method Definition Rules:**
  - A private interface method must be marked with the private modifier and include a method body.
  - A private interface method may be called only by default and private (non‐ static) methods within the interface definition.
- **Private Static Interface Method Definition Rules:**
  - A private static method must be marked with the private and static modifiers and include a method body.
  - A private static interface method may be called only by other methods within the interface definition.

### **Introducing Functional Programming**

- A **_functional interface_** is an interface that contains a single abstract method.
- A **_lambda expression_** is a block of code that gets passed around, sort of like an anonymous class that defines one method.

## Annotations
- The purpose of an annotation is to assign metadata attributes to classes,methods, variables, and other Java types.
- Annotations function a lot like interfaces.
- Annotations establish relationships that make it easier to manage data about our application.
- An annotation ascribes custom information on the declaration where it is defined.
- Annotations are optional metadata and by themselves do not do anything.
- The default value of an annotation must be **a non‐ null constant expression.**
- ***Marker annotation*** is one that does not contain any elements.
- The ***@Target annotation*** takes an array of ElementType enum values as its value() element.
- Without the ***@Repeatable*** annotation, an annotation can be applied only once.
- To declare a @Repeatable annotation, you must define a containing annotation type value. A containing annotation type is a separate annotation that defines a value() array element.

## Generics and Collections
- A collection is a group of objects contained in a single object.
- The contains() method calls equals() on elements of the ArrayList to see whether there are any matches.
- Adding or removing an element is slower than accessing an element.
- A LinkedList is special because it implements both List and Queue.
- The replaceAll() method calls the lambda on each element of the list and replaces the value at that index.
- 